Paper: An intelligent shopping list (#465)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/nadia_tahiri/nadia_tahiri.rst

  First, we propose the development of a new machine learning model written in Python 3 that predicts which grocery products the consumer will buy again or will try to buy for the first time, and in which store(s) they will shop. 
  Second, we developed a smart shopping list template to provide consumers with a personalized weekly shopping list based on their shopping history and known preferences. 
  As the explanatory variables, we used available grocery shopping history, store promotion information for the given region, 
  as well as product price statistics.

.. class:: keywords

   Machine Learning, Prediction, Long short-term memory, Convolutional Neural Network, Gradient Tree Boosting, :math:`F_1`, Python, Sklearn, Tensorflow

Introduction
------------

A typical grocery retailer offers consumers thousands of promotions every week 
to attract more consumers and thus improve their economic performance [TTR16]_. 
The studies by Walters and Jamil (2002, 2003) of [WJ02]_ and [WJ03]_ found that about 39% of all items purchased 

> during an inter-category grocery were weekly specials and promotions, and about 30% of consumers 

Reviewer: What is an inter-category grocery?

Author: Sorry, it’s a mistake. I change “inter-category” by “a grocery shopping”.

surveyed were very sensitive to product prices, buying more promotional items than regular ones. 
With the recent expansion of machine learning methods, including deep learning, 
it seems appropriate to develop a series of methods that allow retailers to offer consumers attractive 
and cost-effective shopping baskets, as well as to propose consumers tools 
to create smart personalized weekly shopping lists based on historical purchases, 

> known preferences and specials available in local stores.

Reviewer: "known preferences and specials" -> "known preferences, and specials"

I'm big on the oxford comma 😅

Author: Oxford comma is great. Fixed in https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/1c3d95c55a6078f3a5541d8c18fdc010959908c5

A grocery list is an integral part of the shopping experience for many consumers. 
The lists serve, for example, as a reminder, a budgeting tool, 
or an effective way to organize weekly grocery shopping. 
In addition, several mobile retail studies indicate that potential customers place 
the highest priority on features that help them to create and to manage personalized 
shopping lists interactively [NPS03]_ and [Faz17]_.

Problem statement and proposal
------------------------------

In this section, we present the problem statement and describe the considered machine learning architecture.

> Firstly, by using the grocery shopping database in Canada `MyGroceryTour` [#]_ (see Figure :ref:`MyGroceryTour`), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, by using the grocery shopping database in Canada `MyGroceryTour` [#]_ (see Figure :ref:`MyGroceryTour`), 
```

we looked for the partitioning of consumers into classes that will group 
them efficiently based on purchases made. 
Then, this classification was used in the prediction stage. 
Since the real consumer data contains thousands of individual articles; we focus primarily on product categories. 

> The principal component analysis (linear and polynomial PCA [Jol11]_) was first computed to visualize the initial data  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A principal component analysis (linear and polynomial PCA [Jol11]_) was first computed to visualize the initial data  
```

and to choose the number of main components to use when partitioning consumers into classes. 

> The application of efficient partitioning methods, such as K-means [Jai10]_ and X-means [PM+00]_, 

Reviewer: Did you consider hdbscan?

Author: It seems to be a good idea to consider hdbscan. Thank you. In this study, we did not use it. In the future, we plan to compare more ensemble-based techniques, including hdbscan.

made it possible to determine the number of classes of consumers, as well as their distribution by class.

.. figure:: figures/trois_magasins.png
   :align: center
   
   MyGroceryTour website for the postal code H2Y 1C6 in Montreal. 
   The website was created to test the new machine learning model. 
   It was written in Javascript, Bootstrap and Python. :label:`MyGroceryTour` 

.. [#] MyGroceryTour.ca

> Secondly, we developed a statistical model to predict which products previously purchased will be 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Second, we developed a statistical model to predict which products previously purchased will be 
```

in the next order of the consumer. By using explanatory variables, such as available grocery shopping histories, 
information on current promotions in stores in the given region, and commodity price statistics, 
we developed a machine learning model that is able to:

i. Predict which groceries the consumer will want to buy again or will try to buy for the first time, as well as which store(s) (within the area they usually shop in);
ii. Create a smart shopping list by providing the consumer with a weekly shopping list customized based on their purchase history and known preferences. 

This list also includes recommendations regarding the optimal quantity of every product suggested and the store(s)  

> where these products are to be purchased. We also calculated the consumer's optimal weekly commute 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where these products are to be purchased. We also calculate the consumer's optimal weekly commute 
```
(present tense since this is part of what the shopping list does)

Author: exactly, fixed

using the generalized commercial traveler algorithm (see Figure :ref:`circuit`).

.. figure:: figures/mygrocerytour_circuit.png
   :align: center
   
   Screenshot of MyGroceryTour website with an optimal shopping journey using the generalized commercial traveler algorithm. :label:`circuit`

> :math:`F_1` statistics maximization algorithm [NCLC12]_, 

Reviewer 2: The definition of the F1 statistic is provided in the end of the Statistics section. It might help readers to mention that it is define later.

```suggestion
An :math:`F_1` statistics maximization algorithm [NCLC12]_, 
```

> based on dynamic programming, was used to achieve objectives (i), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
based on dynamic programming, was used to achieve objective (i), 
```

which will be of major interest to retailers and distributors. 
A deep learning method [Gir16]_, based on Recurrent Neuron Networks (RNN) 
and Convolutional Neuron Network (CNN), and both implemented using the TensorFlow library [Gir16]_, 

> was used to achieve objectives (ii). Those implementations are going to create a significant interest to consumers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
were used to achieve objective (ii). Those implementations can provide significant benefits to consumers.
```

Author: thanks for this suggestion

The problem can be reformulated as a binary prediction task. Given a consumer, 
the history of their previous purchases and a product with their price history, 

> to predict whether or not the given product will be included in the grocery list of the consumer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
predict whether or not the given product will be included in the grocery list of the consumer. 
```

Our approach adapted a variety of generative models to existing data, i.e., 
first-level models, and to use the internal representations of 
these models as features of the second-level models. 
RNNs and CNNs were used at the first learning level 
and forward propagation neural networks (Feed-forward NN) 
was applied at the second learning level.

Depending on the user :math:`u` and the user purchase history
(:math:`shop_{t-h:t}`, :math:`h > 0`), we predict the probability that a product :math:`i` is included 

> in the next shop :math:`_{t+1}` of :math:`u`

Reviewer 2: Does "shop" mean a "shopping trip" or a "purchase"? Not a store, right? 

(after reading the rest of the paper, I think it means "store"?)

Author: “shop” in this case means “shopping basket”. This correction was applied.

Dataset
-------
In this section we discuss the details of synthetic and real datasets,
the latter obtained from `MyGroceryTour`.

Features
========

For the project, we consider only the significant features, 
such as `distance`, `special` rate, `products`, and `store`. 
All features, we used, are described as follow:

> - **user\_id**: user number. We take care of anonymized all data set. :math:`user\_id \in \underbrace{\{1 \cdots 374\}}_{\text{reals}} \cup \underbrace{\{375 \cdots 1374\}}_{\text{generated}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **user\_id**: user number. We took care to anonymize the dataset. :math:`user\_id \in \underbrace{\{1 \cdots 374\}}_{\text{reals}} \cup \underbrace{\{375 \cdots 1374\}}_{\text{generated}}`
```
The generated user_ids are not sequential? or was 1 to 375 randomly mapped to 1000 to 1374?

Author: The IDs (`user\_id`) are not sequentially. In total, we have 1374 users. Among them, we have 374 real users and 1000 users whose behavior was generated following the distribution of real users (see Figure 3) and the consumer statistics available in the report by Statistics Canada (2017).

- **order\_id**: unique number of the basket. :math:`order\_id \in \mathbb{Z}`
- **store\_id**: unique number of the store. :math:`store\_id \in \{1 \cdots 10\}` 
- **distance**: distance to the store. :math:`distance \in \mathbb{R}^+`
- **product\_id**: unique number of the product. :math:`product\_id = 46 000`

> - **category\_id**: unique category number for a product. :math:`category\_id \in \{1 \cdots 24\}`  

Reviewer: Who determines product categories?

Author: The product categories were determined with the purchase histories is the current version of our model does not allow a new product to be bought by a user (i.e., every user can only buy products that were in at least one of its previous shopping baskets).

- **reorder**: the reorder is equal to 1 if this product has been ordered by this user in the past, 0 else. :math:`reorders \in \{0,1\}`
- **special**: discount percentage applied to the product price at the time of purchase. :math:`special \in \{[0\%,15\%[, [15\%,30\%[, [30\%,50\%[, [50\%,100\%[\}`
     
Consumer profile
================

> We found that there are 3 consumer profiles see [WJ03]_, [WJ02]_, and [TNTK16]_. 

Reviewer: How did you discover this? Was this from the clustering step? If so, which algorithm did you use for scoring the coherence of each cluster?

Author: These values were obtained from Statistics Canada. Moreover, the distributions used our study follow these statistics.

The first group is consumers who only buy products on promotion.
The second group is consumers who always buy the same products (without considering promotions).
Finally, the third group is consumers who buy products whether there is a promotion or not.
On the model, we plan to consider that information and make the prediction more personalized on the consumer profile.

Data Synthesis
==============

> Since the real dataset was not enough to complete correctly the project, we increased it.

Reviewer 2: I would really like to know how much of the dataset is simulated.

Author: Fixed!

Author: In fact, 72.73% of the data were simulated (1000 out of 1374 baskets were simulated).

> Since the real dataset was not enough to complete correctly the project, we increased it.

Reviewer: Was it not large enough? Not complete enough? Also "complete correctly" -> "correctly complete".

Author: The original dataset was composed of 375 users. It may be not enough to apply an appropriate machine learning method.

We described the sets of data simulated in the study, 
and we presented in detail the results of the simulation step.
For :math:`store\_id`, we started with an initial store and changed stores based on the proportion of common products between baskets.
If we assumed that the store coordinates are normally distributed :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,\sigma^2)` independently, 
the distance between this store and the consumer home located originally :math:`(0,0)` follows a Rayleigh distribution [KR05]_ with the :math:`\sigma` parameter.

> Finally, we increased the `special` feature. This variable is based on the composition of the baskets, choosing a special random proportional to the Boltzmann distribution [AAR+18]_.

Reviewer 2: a "special random distribution", or a "special random variable drawn from a Boltzmann distribution"?

Author: Sorry about this confusion. The following correction has been applied: “a special random variable drawn from a Boltzmann distribution”.

> We observed that the baskets generated to follow the same distribution that original basket in term of the basket size 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We observed that the sizes of the generated baskets follow the same distribution as the original basket sizes
```

Author: Fixed!

(see Figure :ref:`orderfrequency`).

> .. figure:: figures/order_frequency.png

Reviewer 2: Are these histograms normalized in some way? If the blue and red histograms represent the same numbers, it would imply the number of synthesized baskets are about the same as the number original baskets.

Author: Exactly, these histograms confirm that the simulated data follow the same distribution that the real data.

   :align: center
     
   Difference of basket size distribution between **Baskets generated** in blue and **Original baskets** in red.  :label:`orderfrequency`

> Preprocessing dataset

Reviewer 2: In this section, I really want to know how much data was being processed! How many Gigabytes or in whatever appropriate unit?

Author: Initially, the data were stocked in CSV files at a MySQL database taking 1.4 GB. Then, the data were stocked in a dataframe.

=====================

We launched the preprocessing dataset tasks on the servers of Compute Canada. This step was carried out using 172 nodes 
and 40 cores with an Intel Gold 6148 Skylake CPU(2.4 GHz) and  NVidia V100SXM2(16G memory). We preprocessed the user data, 

> the product data, and the department data. The bash script has given as follow:

Reviewer 2: Here and elsewhere, I am unclear what "department" means. Is it a department in each grocery store (like "produce department", "meat department")?

Author: Sorry for this confusion, by “department” we denoted the product category. We have 24 product categories such as breakfast, frozen foods, pasta, fruits, and vegetables (see http://mygrocerytour.com/#!/categories). We changed the word “department” by “product category” throughout the paper.

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer 2: I recommend to leave out the bash script contents as many of the lines are not that interesting. You might write in text that the preprocessing had a 48 hour limit and used 32 GB of memory. Also, I tried to look up what `#!SBATCH` does (the exclamation point) and as far as I can tell, it would comment out that line.

Author: Done! We removed the bash script and added: “The preprocessing had a 48 hour limit and used 32 GB of the RAM memory.” Exactly, #!SBATCH does (the exclamation point) comment out that line. By default, the server allows 32 GB of memory.

   #!/bin/bash
   #!SBATCH --time=48:00:00
   #SBATCH --account=def-jgnes
   #!SBATCH --job-name=market_cpu
   #SBATCH --output=market_out_cpu
   #SBATCH --error=market_err_cpu
   #!SBATCH --mem=32000M
   #SBATCH --mail-user=tahiri.nadia@courrier.uqam.ca
   #SBATCH --mail-type=BEGIN
   #SBATCH --mail-type=END
   #SBATCH --mail-type=FAIL

Models
------

> In this section, we described the workflow (see Figure :ref:`workflow`) and the models we used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we describe the workflow (see Figure :ref:`workflow`) and the models we used.
```

I really would like to see this figure before reading the text of this section. I would like this figure to be Figure 4 and to appear before the LSTM diagram.

Author: Fixed! We switched Figures 4 and 5.

Long short-term memory (LSTM) network
=====================================

The LSTM [HS97]_ is a recurrent neural network (RNN) that has an input, hidden (memory block), and an output layer. 
The memory block contains 3 gate units namely the input, forget, 
and output with a self-recurrent connection neuron [HS97]_.

- **Input gate** learns what information is to be stored in the memory block.
- **Forget gate** learns how much information to be retained or forgotten from the memory block.
- **Output gate** learns when the stored information can be used.

Figure :ref:`lstm` illustrates the proposed architecture and summarizes the detail involved in the structure. 

> A combined RNN and CNN trained to predict the probability that a user will order a product at each timestep. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A combined RNN and CNN was trained to predict the probability that a user will order a product at each timestep. 
```

Author: nice catch, fixed

The RNN is a single-layer LSTM and the CNN is a 6-layer causal CNN with dilated convolutions.

> The last layer is a fully-connected layer which makes the classification.

Reviewer 2: This last layer must mean the CNN, yes? What classification is it making? In other words, what are the classes?

Author: The last layer includes a gradient tree boosting (GTB) classifier used to predict the products that will be bought during the current week. The classifier contains two classes: 0 (i.e. will be bought) and 1 (i.e. won’t be bought).

The CNN was used as a feature extractor and the LSTM network as a sequential learning.

.. figure:: figures/lstm.png
   :align: center 

>   

Reviewer 2: In the caption, please explain C, H, and X. In the interior of the box, do f_t, C-bar_t, I_t, O_t correspond in some way to forget, learn, remember and use?

Author: Fixed! See https://github.com/TahiriNadia/scipy_proceedings/commit/25fe61103f2cc97ffa0cc09c7fbcd8e7bb77f5bf

   This figure shows a chain-structured LSTM network. An LSTM architecture contains forget, learn, remember and use gates that determine whether an input is so important  that  it  can  be  saved.  
   In  the  LSTM  unit representing in this figure, four different functions: sigmoid (:math:`\sigma`), hyperbolic tangent (:math:`tanh`), multiplication (:math:`*`), and sum (:math:`+`) are used, 
   which make it easier to update the weights during the backpropagation process. :label:`lstm`

> Overall characteristics of the neuron networks which used in this project are described as follow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overall characteristics of the neural networks which are used in this project are described as follows:
```
Is the `rnn` function from TensorFlow? Or another package? Please indicate.

Author: The Tensorflow package was used to implement our `rnn` class which takes into account the features described in the previous section. Fixed!

     prediction_dir=os.path.join(base_dir, 
                                'predictions'),
     optimizer='adam',
     learning_rate=.001,
     lstm_size=512,
     batch_size=64,
     num_training_steps=300,
     early_stopping_steps=10,
     warm_start_init_step=0,
     regularization_constant=0.0,
     keep_prob=1.0,
     enable_parameter_averaging=False,
     num_restarts=2,
     min_steps_to_checkpoint=100,
     log_interval=20,
     num_validation_batches=4,
    )

Gradient Boosted Tree (GBT) network
===================================

GBT [Fri02]_ is an iterative algorithm that combines simple parameterized functions with low performance 
(i.e. high prediction error) to produce a highly accurate prediction rule. GBT utilizes an ensemble of weak
learners to boost performance; this makes it a good candidate model for predicting the grocery shopping list. 
It requires little data preprocessing and tuning of parameters while yielding interpretable results, 
with the help of partial dependency plots and other investigative tools. 
Further, GBT can model complex interactions in a simple fashion and be applied in both classification and 

> regression with a variety of response distributions including Gaussian [Car03]_, Bernoulli [CMW16]_, Poisson [PJ73]_, and Laplace [Tay19]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
regression with a variety of response distributions including Gaussian [Car03]_, Bernoulli [CMW16]_, Poisson [PJ73]_, and Laplace [Tay19]_. 
```

Author: Good catch! Fixed!

Finally, missing values in the collected data can be easily managed.

> Moreover, in this study, we denote frequently missing data in the history grocery list by the user, that is why this technique is more adapted.

Reviewer 2: Does "denote frequently missing data" mean that you are flagging, or masking, missing data in the user's purchase history?

Author: This means that the composition of the shopping history list is not complete in the sense we do not have the composition of the baskets for each user for all weeks. See https://github.com/TahiriNadia/scipy_proceedings/commit/9800b0296e3675ea2d38e41a228eaac42596e295

> The data is divided into 2 groups (training and validation) which comprise 90% and 10% of the data respectively.

Reviewer: Does your test set include any of the simulated data?

Author: After simulating the dataset, the strategy used was to merge real and simulated data and then split them into two groups (training and validation datasets). The test set was composed of the real and simulated dataset.

> The final model has two neuron networks and a GBT classifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final model has two neural networks and a GBT classifier.
```

> Once trained, it was used to predict in real time what would be the basket consumer, based on the history of purchases and current promotions in neighboring stores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once trained, it was used to predict in real time what would be the consumer's basket, based on their history of purchases and current promotions in neighboring stores.
```

Author: Fixed!

> Based on the validation loss function, we eliminated the LSTM Rays and LSTM model size (see Figure :ref:`lstm`).

Reviewer 2: How do the LSTM Rays and LSTM model size relate to the elements in Figure 4?

Author: LSTM Rays and LSTM model size is not related to the elements in Figure 4, but only to the LSTM structure used. The new formulation is as follows: “Based on the validation loss function, we removed the following parameters from our input data: 1) LSTM Category and 2) LSTM size of the next basket.

Author: see https://github.com/TahiriNadia/scipy_proceedings/commit/cc5b896282332e6135a3316b26093332c45bdbd1

     \hline
     \end{longtable}

     \caption{Top-level models used.}
         \label{tab:model1}

   \end{table}

Latent representations of entities (embeddings)
===============================================

For each :math:`a \in \mathcal{A}`, an embedding :math:`T:\mathcal{A} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^{d}` returns a vector :math:`d`-dimensionel.
If :math:`\mathcal{A} \subset \mathbb{Z}`, :math:`T` is a matrix :math:`|\mathcal{A}|\times d` learned by backpropagation. We represented in Table 2 all dimensions of each model used.

.. raw:: latex

    \begin{table}
        
        \begin{longtable}{lcc}
        \hline
        \textbf{Model} & \textbf{Embedding} & \textbf{Dimensions}\tabularnewline
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Products & $49,684 \times 300$\\
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Catégories & $24 \times 50$\\
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Departments & $50 \rightarrow 10$\\
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Users & $1,374 \times 300$\\
        \hline

>         NNMF & Users & $1,374 \times 25$\\

Reviewer 2: NNMF appears only in Table 2 and Figure 5. I did not find a definition for it. How does it relate to the RNN + CNN described in the text?

Author: We combined RNN and CNN to predict the probability that a user will order a product at each timestep.

        \hline
        NNMF & Products & $49,684 \times 25$\\
        \hline        
        \end{longtable}

        \caption{Dimensions of the representations learned by different models.}
        \label{tab:model2}

    \end{table}

Second level model: Composition of baskets
==========================================

The final basket is chosen according to the final reorganization probabilities, choosing the subset of products with the expected maximum :math:`F_1` score, see [LEN14]_ and [NCLC12]_.
This score is frequently used especially when the relevant elements are scarce.

.. math::
   
   \max_\mathcal{P} \mathbb{E}_{p'\in \mathcal{P}}[F_1(\mathcal{P})]=\max_\mathcal{P}\mathbb{E}_{p'\in \mathcal{P}}\bigg[\frac{2\sum_{i\in \mathcal{P}}\text{TP}(i)}{\sum_{i\in \mathcal{P}}(2\text{VP}(i)+\text{FN}(i)+\text{FP}(i))}\bigg],

> where True Positive :math:`(TP)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=1]\mathbb{I}[R_i=1]`, False Negative :math:`(FN)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=0]\mathbb{I}[R_i=1]`, False Positive :math:`(FP)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=1]\mathbb{I}[R_i=0]` and :math:`R_i=1`if the product :math:`i` was bought in the basket :math:`p'\in \mathcal{P}`, else :math:`0`.\\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where True Positive :math:`(TP)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=1]\mathbb{I}[R_i=1]`, False Negative :math:`(FN)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=0]\mathbb{I}[R_i=1]`, False Positive :math:`(FP)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=1]\mathbb{I}[R_i=0]` and :math:`R_i=1` if the product :math:`i` was bought in the basket :math:`p'\in \mathcal{P}`, else :math:`0`.\\
```

Author: Nice catch, fixed!

We used :math:`\mathbb{E}_{X}[F_1(Y)]=\sum_{x\in X}F_1(Y=y|x)P(X=x)`

> .. figure:: figures/workflow.png

Reviewer 2: Please move this figure to the start of the Models section, where it is first referenced.

Author: Fixed! We switched Figures 4 and 5.

   :align: center
   :scale: 29%
   
   The graphical illustration of the proposed model trying to predict the next basket in term of the list of product. 

>    The first level of the model used LSTM and NNMF. 

Reviewer 2: Please define NNMF (probably in the text). Also, it seems to me that the Models section should have a subheading NNMF, in parallel with the subheadings LSTM and GBT.

Author: Fixed! Added subheading NNMF.

Author: We added the subsection for NNMF. Please the revised text. See https://github.com/TahiriNadia/scipy_proceedings/commit/ac5a7edcef5f4908a5dc51d460ac00cf91ece18c

   The second level of the model applied GBT.
   Finally, the last test considered to predict the next basket by using :math:`F_1`. :label:`workflow`

Statistics

> ==========

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-------------
```
I think Statistics should be a bold heading?

Author: I've changed Statistics to the bold heading

We present the obtained results using proposed method in this section. 
As well as the metrics (see Equations 1-6) that are utilized to evaluate the performance of methods.

Statistic score
===============

The *accuracy* of a test is its capability to recognize the classes properly. 
To evaluate the accuracy of the model, we should define the percentage 
of true positive and true negative in all estimated cases, 
i.e. the sum of true positive, true negative, false positive, and false negative.
Statistically, this metric can be identified as follow:

.. math::
   :label: e:matrix
   
   Accuracy = \frac{(TP+TN)}{(TP+TN+FP+FN)}

where:

> - **TP** is True Positive, i.e. the number of positively labeled data, which have been classified as `Positive`, correct class,

Reviewer: We probably don't need to worry about defining these in the paper

Author: Following your recommendations, we removed the definition. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/92091095e4d5353b6c93d58e9ed028938f29adcb

- **FP** is False Positive, i.e. the number of negatively labeled data, which falsely have been classified as `Positive`,
- **TN** is True Negative, i.e. the number of negatively labeled data, which have been classified as `Negative`, correct class, and 
- **FN** is False Negative, i.e.  the number of positively labeled data, which falsely have been classified as `Negative`.

The *precision* is a description of random errors, a measure of statistical variability.
The formula of precision is the ratio between TP with all truth data (positive or negative). 
The Equation is described as follow:

.. math::
   :label: e:matrix
   
   Precision = \frac{TP}{(TP+FP)}

The *recall* or *sensitivity* or *TP Rate* is defined as the number of true positive data labeled divided by 
the total number of TP and FN labeled data.

.. math::
  :label: e:matrix
  
   Recall = Sensitivity = TP Rate = \frac{TP}{(TP+FN)}

> The *F-measure* or :math:`F_1` precise the classifier, as well as how robust it is (does not miss a significant number of instances).

Reviewer 2: F1 is the classifier, is what is meant?  And a value of 1 would mean the product would definitely be purchased (100% probability)?

Author: Corrected: “The *F-measure* or :math:`F_1` is a well-known and reliable evaluation metric.” The value of 1 would the mean perfect accuracy, i.e., the product would definitely be purchased.

.. math::
   :label: e:matrix
   
   F-measure = F1 = \frac{2TP}{(2TP + FP + FN)} 

Finally, we evaluated the model by *FP Rate* which corresponds to the ratio between FP and sum of TN and FP.

.. math::
   :label: e:matrix
   
   FP Rate = FPR = \frac{FP}{(TN+FP)} 
   

> We examined these six evaluation metrics on this study.

Reviewer 2: After reading this sentence, I really want to see a table! which is Table 3, I see. Maybe tell the reader these are in the next section?

Author: Corrected by adding: “We examined these five evaluation metrics in our study (see the next section for the results of the F1 measure).”

     if true_products:
      true_products = ' '.join(true_products)
     else:
      true_products = 'None'

     prod_preds_dict = dict(zip(x['product_id'].values,
                                x['prediction'].values))
     none_prob = prod_preds_dict.get(0, None)
     del prod_preds_dict[0]

     other_products = np.array(prod_preds_dict.keys())
     other_probs = np.array(prod_preds_dict.values())

     idx = np.argsort(-1*other_probs)
     other_products = other_products[idx]
     other_probs = other_probs[idx]

     opt = F1Optimizer.max_expectation(other_probs,
                                       none_prob)

     best_prediction = ['None'] if opt[1] else []
     best_prediction += list(other_products[:opt[0]])

     if best_prediction:
      predicted_products = ' '.join(map(str, 
                                    best_prediction))
     else:
      predicted_products = 'None'

     series['products'] = predicted_products
     series['true_products'] = true_products

     return true_products, predicted_products, opt[-1]

Results
-------

Figure :ref:`productpca` illustrates PCA of 20 random products projected in 2 dimensions. 

> The results show clearly the cluster of Pasta sauce with Pasta group. 

Reviewer 2: Pasta group means, Mexican Style Rice & Pasta, plus Whole Grain Thin Spaghetti Pasta? Why is Penne Pasta so far from this group? Do the Categories in Table 2 include a Pasta Group?

Author: This embedding plot was generated with 20 random products. Some trends can be observed here, but there are also some exceptions as it often happens with real data. In Table 2, Pasta Group was included in the product Categories.
See https://github.com/TahiriNadia/scipy_proceedings/commit/934a2cd5306074f3a4c9765aafb4eded9b0f95fe

In fact, this result can identify consumer buying behavior.

.. figure:: figures/product_pca.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 25%
   
   Embeddings of 20 random products projected in 2 dimensions. :label:`productpca`

:math:`F_1` in Figure :ref:`violon` (a) shows that the profiles of all promotions are similar. 
In the perspective of this work, it will be interesting to include weight base on statistic value. 
In Statistic Canada - 2017, only 5% of all promotions are more than 50% promoted, 95% of all promotions are less than 50%. 

> Weightings are needed to give the model more robust. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Weightings are needed to make the model more robust. 
```

Author: Nice suggestion! Fixed.

Figure :ref:`violon` (b) indicates that all shops follow the same profiles in the model. 

.. figure:: figures/violon.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 20%
   :figclass: wt
   

>    Distribution of :math:`F_1` measures against stores (a) and rebates (b). :label:`violon`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Distribution of :math:`F_1` measures against rebates (a) and stores (b). :label:`violon`
```
In the figure, it would be helpful for the x-axis of the right-hand plot to be "Store" instead of "shop".

Author: Corrected.

Figure :ref:`productsF1` and Table 3 indicates that the values of :math:`F_1` metric to all products. 
Some products are easy to predict with the value of :math:`F_1` > 0 and 
some products are so hard to predict with the value of :math:`F_1` < 0. 

> For the first group, they are products includes on restriction regime 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the first group, they are products included on restriction regimes 
```

Author: Fixed!

buy and in which store(s) of the region he/she will do grocery shopping.
We created an intelligent shopping list based on the shopping history of consumer and his/her
known preferences.
The originality of the approach, compared to the existing algorithms, is that in addition to the
purchase history we also consider promotions, possible purchases in different stores and the
distance between these stores and the home of the consumer.

We have modelled the habits of the site's consumers
MyGroceryTour with the help of deep neural networks.
We used two types of neural networks during
Learning: Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and Networks
forward-propagating neurons (Feedforward NN).
The value of the :math:`F_1` statistic that represents the quality of the model
need to be increasing on the next step. The constant influx of new data on *MyGroceryTour*
improved the model over time.
The originality of the approach, compared to existing algorithms,
is that in addition to the purchase history we also consider the
promotions, possible purchases in different stores and distance
between these stores and the consumer's home.

> In future work, we plan to predict the next grocery shop and to include the product quantities on the basket proposed to the user. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In future work, we plan to predict the grocery store that will visited next, and to include the product quantities in the basket proposed to the user. 
```

> We suggest also to ponderate the algorithm with the distance between shop and user home coordinates to the promotion rate.

Reviewer 2: I can't recall seeing the word "ponderate" before! Perhaps, "We will investigate weighting the algorithm by distance between the user's home and the store, and the promotion rate." ?

Author: Great, thank you for this recommendation. We added the following sentence to the revised manuscript: We will investigate weighting the algorithm by the distance between the user's home and the store, and the promotion rate.

Acknowledgments
---------------

> The authors thank PyCon Canada for their valuable comments on this project. This work used

Reviewer: 🇨🇦

resources of the Calcul Canada. This work was supported by Natural Sciences 
and Engineering Research Council of Canada and Fonds de Recherche sur la Nature et Technologies of Quebec. 
The funds provided by these funding institutions have been used. We would like to thanks SciPy conference 
and anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments on this manuscript.

Abbreviations
-------------

- CNN - Convolutional Neural Network
- GBT  - Gradient Tree Boosting
- LSTM - Long short-term memory
- ML - Machine Learning
- NN - Neuron Networks
- PCA - Principal Component Analysis
- RMSE - Root Mean Square Error
- RNN - Recurrent Neuron Networks

> References

Reviewer 3: All citations that have DOIs should include those DOIs in the paper's references section.

Author: Great! I've added DOIs here https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/500b30a4d51442448795faf4f3a56c254c60cdaf

In Table 2, Pasta Group was included into the product Categories.
In fact, this result can identify consumer buying behavior.

.. figure:: figures/product_pca.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 27%
   
   Embeddings of 20 random products projected in 2 dimensions. :label:`productpca`

:math:`F_1` in Figure :ref:`violon` (a) shows that the profiles of all promotions are similar. 
In the perspective of this work, it will be interesting to include weight base on statistic value. 
In Statistic Canada - 2017, only 5% of all promotions are more than 50% promoted, 95% of all promotions are less than 50%. 
Weightings are needed to make the model more robust. 
Figure :ref:`violon` (b) indicates that all shops follow the same profiles in the model. 

.. figure:: figures/violon.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 21%
   :figclass: wt
   
   Distribution of :math:`F_1` measures against rebates (a) and stores (b). :label:`violon`

Figure :ref:`productsF1` and Table 3 indicates that the values of :math:`F_1` metric to all products. 
Some products are easy to predict with the value of :math:`F_1` > 0 and 
some products are so hard to predict with the value of :math:`F_1` < 0. 

> For the first group, they are products included on restriction regimes 

Reviewer 2: Does a large positive `F_1` score mean: if the user has purchased this product before, they are likely to purchase it again? It makes sense to me that a user on a restriction regime would be likely to purchase the same products.

Vanilla Chocolate Peanut Butter Ice Cream Bars appears to be a notable exception to this statement!

Author: Yes, in most cases a large positive F_1 score means that the user, who has purchased this product before, is likely to purchase it again, but there are also some exceptions from it. Overall, we tested our model with 1,000 products only (out of 49,684 products), which belonged to 5 of the 24 available categories, i.e. `Fruits-Vegetables`, `Pasta-Flour`, `Organic Food`, `Beverages`, and `Breakfast`, the rest of the categories were not considered in our test.

such as `diet cranberry fruit juice`, `purified water`, and `total 0% blueberry acai greek yogurt`.

.. raw:: latex
    
    \begin{table}

        \begin{longtable}{lc}
        \hline
        \textbf{Product} &        \textbf{$F_1$} \\
        \hline
    Gogo Squeez Organic Apple Strawberry Applesauce &  0.042057 \\
            Organic AppleBerry Applesauce on the Go &  0.042057 \\
                           Carrot And Celery Sticks &  0.042057 \\
             Gluten Free Peanut Butter Berry  Chewy &  0.042057 \\
                   Organic Italian Balsamic Vinegar &  0.049325 \\ 
        \hline
                         Diet Cranberry Fruit Juice &  0.599472 \\
                                     Purified Water &  0.599472 \\
     Vanilla Chocolate Peanut Butter Ice Cream Bars &  0.599472 \\
  Total 0\% with Honey Nonfat Greek Strained Yogurt &  0.590824 \\
              Total 0\% Blueberry Acai Greek Yogurt &  0.590824 \\
        \hline
        \end{longtable}

>         \caption{The average value of $F_1$ for all products considered.}

Reviewer 2: This caption still puzzles me, since these must not be all products (too many, 49,000+). Are these the products with the highest and lowest values of `F_1`? The average must be over the users, do I understand correctly?

Author: Exactly, you are right. Here we presented only the products with the five highest and the five lowest values of `F_1`. Yes, the average, in this case, was taken over all users who purchased these products. This information was added to the revised version of the table caption. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/8cce231fec9fc516daa4a51bc55346605e5cf319

in the next order of the consumer. By using explanatory variables, such as available grocery shopping histories, 
information on current promotions in stores in the given region, and commodity price statistics, 
we developed a machine learning model that is able to:

i. Predict which groceries the consumer will want to buy again or will try to buy for the first time, as well as which store(s) (within the area they usually shop in);
ii. Create a smart shopping list by providing the consumer with a weekly shopping list customized based on their purchase history and known preferences. 

This list also includes recommendations regarding the optimal quantity of every product suggested and the store(s)  
where these products are to be purchased. We also calculate the consumer's optimal weekly commute 
using the generalized commercial traveler algorithm (see Figure :ref:`circuit`).

.. figure:: figures/mygrocerytour_circuit.png
   :align: center
   :figclass: wt
   :scale: 34%
   
   Screenshot of MyGroceryTour website with an optimal shopping journey using the generalized travelling salesman algorithm. :label:`circuit`

> An :math:`F_1` statistics maximization algorithm [NCLC12]_ (see the Statistics section),, 

Reviewer: We seem to have an extra comma here

Author: nice catch, fixed https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/27d6186d02af7d0f3e102fc540fb7b0603c18eaf

- **order\_id**: unique number of the basket. :math:`order\_id \in \mathbb{Z}`
- **store\_id**: unique number of the store. :math:`store\_id \in \{1 \cdots 10\}` 
- **distance**: distance to the store. :math:`distance \in \mathbb{R}^+`
- **product\_id**: unique number of the product. :math:`product\_id = 46 000`
- **category\_id**: unique category number for a product. :math:`category\_id \in \{1 \cdots 24\}`  
- **reorder**: the reorder is equal to 1 if this product has been ordered by this user in the past, 0 else. :math:`reorders \in \{0,1\}`
- **special**: discount percentage applied to the product price at the time of purchase. :math:`special \in \{[0\%,15\%[, [15\%,30\%[, [30\%,50\%[, [50\%,100\%[\}`

The IDs (`user\_id`) are not sequentially. In total, we have 1374 users. Among them we have 374 real users and 1000 users whose behaviour was generated following the distribution of real users (see Figure 3) and 
the consumer statistics available in the report by Statistics Canada (2017).

> The product categories were determined with the purchase histories is the current version of our model 

Reviewer: I'm having trouble parsing this sentence. Was it meant to read "in the current version of our model, which does not allow"?

Author: We restructured the sentence to be clearer. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/598e8ea7048d7f727451b303440d48d2a0858610

does not allow a new product to be bought by a user (i.e., every user can only buy products that were in at least one of its previous shopping baskets).

We denoted two types of features: categorical and quantitative variables. 

> The difficulty to manage the categorical variable is very important in our study. 

Reviewer: "The difficulty of managing the categorical variables"

Author: Thanks @deniederhut 
Fixed https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/6ed4568b393f72ca32f982add791876b1a29756e

Only `distance` and `special` variables are quantitative, the rest of the variables are categorical.
To manage the categorical variables, we applied a hashing scheme to deal 
with large scale categorical features. The hash function takes into account the input and output vectors length.
We use `LabelEncoder` function existing in `scikit-learn` package, in Python version 3.

Consumer profile
================

We found that there are 3 consumer profiles see [WJ03]_, [WJ02]_, and [TNTK16]_. 

> These values were obtained from Statistics Canada. Moreover, the distributions used our study follow these statistics.

Reviewer: How was this determined? Tweaking the k in k means? Chi-square on expected values?

Author: We used the Calinski-Harabazs cluster validity index [CH74]_ to determine the number of cluster in K-means. The Silhouette index [RPJ87]_ could be also used for this purpose. We added this information to the Introduction section of the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/d7da7d714f5c8c6bc7151a355f70b2c93e57b61e

Finally, the third group is consumers who buy products whether there is a promotion or not.
On the model, we plan to consider that information and make the prediction more personalized on the consumer profile.

Data Synthesis
==============

Since the real dataset was not large enough to apply the appropriate machine learning methods, its size was increased by adding simulated data following the distribution of real data.
The original dataset was composed of 375 users. It may be not enough to apply an appropriate machine learning method. 
In fact, 72.73% of the data were simulated (1000 out of 1374 baskets were simulated).
We described the sets of data simulated in the study, 
and we presented in detail the results of the simulation step.
For :math:`store\_id`, we started with an initial store and changed stores based on the proportion of common products between baskets.
If we assumed that the store coordinates are normally distributed :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,\sigma^2)` independently, 
the distance between this store and the consumer home located originally :math:`(0,0)` follows a Rayleigh distribution [KR05]_ with the :math:`\sigma` parameter.

> Assuming that the store coordinates are normally distributed :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,\sigma^2)`,

Reviewer: This sentence is repeated

Author: removed https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/28ecaaf350cfee455320ec45d70ca0bb807e436c

Preprocessing dataset
=====================

Initially, the data were stocked in csv files at a MySQL database taking 1.4 GB. Then, the data were stocked in a dataframe in our Python script.
We launched the preprocessing dataset tasks on the servers of Compute Canada. This step was carried out using 172 nodes 
and 40 cores with an Intel Gold 6148 Skylake CPU(2.4 GHz) and  NVidia V100SXM2(16 GB of memory). We preprocessed the user data, 
the product data, and the department data. The preprocessing had a 48 hour limit and used 32 GB of the RAM memory.

Models
------

In this section, we described the workflow (see Figure :ref:`workflow`) and the models we used.
The graphical representation of the workflow in Figure :ref:`workflow` predicts the next basket by using three models: LSTM, NNMF, and GBT (see next section).

.. figure:: figures/workflow.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 29%
   
   The graphical illustration of the proposed model trying to predict the next basket in term of the list of product. 
   The first level of the model used LSTM and NNMF. 
   The second level of the model applied GBT.

>    Finally, the last test considered to predict the next basket by using :math:`F_1`. :label:`workflow`

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this sentence means

Author: We revised this sentence, which is now as follows: “The graphical illustration of the proposed model intended to predict the content of the current grocery basket. At the first level of the model the LSTM and NNMF networks were used. At the second level of the model, the GBT model was applied. Finally, at the last step we predicted the current grocery basket using:math:`F_1`. :label:`workflow`”. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/493b13abd4f045021d1a4e661207ef1c9bf2cdcc

Long short-term memory (LSTM) network
=====================================

The LSTM [HS97]_ is a recurrent neural network (RNN) that has an input, hidden (memory block), and an output layer. 
The memory block contains 3 gate units namely the input, forget, 
and output with a self-recurrent connection neuron [HS97]_.

- **Input gate** learns what information is to be stored in the memory block.
- **Forget gate** learns how much information to be retained or forgotten from the memory block.
- **Output gate** learns when the stored information can be used.

Figure :ref:`lstm` illustrates the proposed architecture and summarizes the detail involved in the structure. 

> A combined RNN and CNN was trained to predict the probability that a user will order a product at each timestep. 

Reviewer: What defines a time step? Is it each outing? A visit to a specific store?

Author: A time step was defined by the composition of the basket and the store location on the map (see Figure 2). This information was added to the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/1cf3ca7f5241765ab4439fbbf626feca4f7416d2

> The RNN is a single-layer LSTM and the CNN is a 6-layer causal CNN with dilated convolutions.

Reviewer: Which dimension are you running the convolution over?

Author: The width of the convolutional neural network was equal to 1374 (i.e., the number of users), the height was equal to 8 (i.e., the number of features), and the depth was equal to 100 (i.e., the number of orders). This information was added to the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/cbef47fe49ab2e2a8e5265c59ffc8717a318465b

The size of the hidden state of an LSTM unit was fixed to 512.
Batch size corresponds to the number of samples between updates to the model weights and was set to 64 during the training process. We set to 4 the number of validation batches.
The Tensorflow package was used to implement our `rnn` class which takes into account the features described in the previous section.
The `rnn` class structure is organized using the four functions: 1) constructor function, 2) loss score function calculation, 3) getter function, and 4) output score function.

.. code-block:: python

     import TFBaseModel

     class rnn(TFBaseModel):
       def __init__(self, 
                    lstm_size,
                    dilations, 
                    filter_widths, 
                    skip_channels, 
                    residual_channels, 
                    **kwargs):
          ...
       def calculate_loss(self):
          ...
       def get_input_sequences(self):
          ...
       def calculate_outputs(self, x):
         ...

Non-negative matrix factorization (NNMF) network
================================================

> Non-negative matrix factorization NNMF [LS01]_ is a technique consists in combining linear algebra and multivariate analysis to produce two matrices `W` and `H` with 

Reviewer: "is a technique that consists of combining"

Author: Great! Replaced https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/9817bfd019f6e4af249f279a91a5082e7e30b9b0

    :align: center
    :scale: 65%

    Decomposition of the `user_id` (`u` in Figure) by `product_id` (`p` in Figure). The first matrix represents the product by the user (i.e. order count), 
    and then the second and third matrices show the representation of the user and product respectively by 25.
    :label:`nnmf`

NNMF is a powerful machine learning method. [LS01]_ proved the convergence of NNMF to at least a locally optimal solution. NNMF is trained on the matrix of `user*product` counts.

Gradient Boosted Tree (GBT) network
===================================

GBT [Fri02]_ is an iterative algorithm that combines simple parameterized functions with low performance 
(i.e. high prediction error) to produce a highly accurate prediction rule. GBT utilizes an ensemble of weak
learners to boost performance; this makes it a good candidate model for predicting the grocery shopping list. 
It requires little data preprocessing and tuning of parameters while yielding interpretable results, 
with the help of partial dependency plots and other investigative tools. 
Further, GBT can model complex interactions in a simple recommendation system and be applied in both classification and 

> regression with a variety of response distributions including Gaussian [Car03]_, Bernoulli [CMW16]_, Poisson [PJ73]_, and Laplace [Tay19]_.

Reviewer: Do you have binary features for whether or not a person bough a particular product? Or do you have the count number of each item that was purchased?

Author: In fact, one of the features we consider is `reorder` that is equal to 1 if the product has been ordered by the given user in the past, and is equal to 0 otherwise.

The composition of the shopping history list is not complete in the sense we do not have the composition of the baskets for each user for all weeks.
Finally, missing values in the collected data can be easily managed.

> The data are divided into two groups (training and validation) which comprising 90% and 10% of the data respectively.

Reviewer: "which comprise"

Author: Great! Replaced https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/ade97798991c4224ee178a33b3196baa9bcf1235

After simulating the dataset, the strategy used was to merge real and simulated data and then split them into two groups (training and validation datasets). 

> The test set was composed of the real and simulated dataset.

Reviewer: There's an inherent danger in testing on your augmented data. If you restrict the test set to only be real data, do you see a change in the model accuracy?

Author: The results in Table 5 illustrates that a better model accuracy was obtained when the original dataset of 374 real users was enriched by 1000 artificial users. The accuracy of 49% was obtained for the augmented dataset, compared to the accuracy of 27% for the original dataset. This information was added to the revised manuscript.
See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/506d9ec0f66dd859342c4eb3b6534be8ab675b55

The final model has two neural networks and a GBT classifier.

> Once trained, it was used to predict in real time the content of the current grocery basket, based on the history of purchases and current promotions in neighbouring stores.

Reviewer: What does "real time" mean? Is this second-by-second?

Author: Actually, the “real time” does not mean "second-by-second", but rather "day-by-day". We scheduled it using the crontab. This information was added to the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/e5ff76e8b88413d587228fdaae3bbe459f4e34b0

Based on the validation loss function, we removed the following parameters from our input data: 1) LSTM Category and 2) LSTM size of the next basket.

> The last layer includes a GTB classifier used to predict the products that will be bought during the current week. 

Reviewer: Is this a different GBT than the real-time one?

Author: GBT model was modelled using “by user“ and “by order“ frameworks. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/dd3bc40c6e273cdbe552490d9b92cac6988900ab

.. raw:: latex

    \begin{table}
        
        \begin{longtable}{lcc}
        \hline
        \textbf{Model} & \textbf{Embedding} & \textbf{Dimensions}\tabularnewline
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Products & $49,684 \times 300$\\
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Categories & $24 \times 50$\\
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Categories & $50 \rightarrow 10$\\
        \hline
        LSTM Products & Users & $1,374 \times 300$\\
        \hline
        NNMF & Users & $1,374 \times 25$\\
        \hline
        NNMF & Products & $49,684 \times 25$\\
        \hline        
        \end{longtable}

        \caption{Dimensions of the representations learned by different models in the first level of the model used.}
        \label{tab:model2}

    \end{table}

Second level model: Composition of baskets
==========================================

The final basket is chosen according to the final reorganization probabilities, choosing the subset of products with the expected maximum :math:`F_1` score, see [LEN14]_ and [NCLC12]_.
This score is frequently used especially when the relevant elements are scarce.

.. math::
   

>    \max_\mathcal{P} \mathbb{E}_{p'\in \mathcal{P}}[F_1(\mathcal{P})]=\max_\mathcal{P}\mathbb{E}_{p'\in \mathcal{P}}\bigg[\frac{2\sum_{i\in \mathcal{P}}\text{TP}(i)}{\sum_{i\in \mathcal{P}}(2\text{VP}(i)+\text{FN}(i)+\text{FP}(i))}\bigg],

Reviewer: I don't think it is necessary to define all of these metrics.

Author: Our main statistic used for prediction is F1-score, but we think that the other statistics (such as accuracy and recall) are also very important. The FPRate score results were however removed from the text of the paper following your recommendations.

where True Positive :math:`(TP)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=1]\mathbb{I}[R_i=1]`, False Negative :math:`(FN)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=0]\mathbb{I}[R_i=1]`, False Positive :math:`(FP)=\mathbb{I}[\lfloor p(i)\rceil=1]\mathbb{I}[R_i=0]` and :math:`R_i=1` if the product :math:`i` was bought in the basket :math:`p'\in \mathcal{P}`, else :math:`0`.\\
We used :math:`\mathbb{E}_{X}[F_1(Y)]=\sum_{x\in X}F_1(Y=y|x)P(X=x)`

Statistics
-------------

We present the obtained results using proposed method in this section. 
As well as the metrics (see Equations 1-5) that are utilized to evaluate the performance of methods.

> Statistic score

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this section here either. Maybe pare it down to just the description of f1, since that is what you are using for thresholding?

Author: We removed the FPRate score results from the paper. 
We evaluated the model (see Section 'Statistic scores') using the `sklearn` metrics (see  https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/ca278725778859d6510cc61f3ff1a24046e6055f):

Reviewer: Hm. I still see descriptions of accuracy, precision, and recall here

Author: Fixed. Following your recommandation, we have removed the descriptions of accuracy, precision, and recall. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/8d46c3b3d43aef32fd2e669f5107217c32c3e0d6

       if prod != 0:
        true_products = [str(prod)].values]
       else:
        true_products = ['None'].values]

     if true_products:
      true_products = ' '.join(true_products)
     else:
      true_products = 'None'

     prod_preds_dict = dict(zip(x['product_id'].values,
                                x['prediction'].values))
     none_prob = prod_preds_dict.get(0, None)
     del prod_preds_dict[0]

     other_products = np.array(prod_preds_dict.keys())
     other_probs = np.array(prod_preds_dict.values())

     idx = np.argsort(-1*other_probs)
     other_products = other_products[idx]
     other_probs = other_probs[idx]

     opt = F1Optimizer.max_expectation(other_probs,
                                       none_prob)

     best_prediction = ['None'] if opt[1] else []
     best_prediction += list(other_products[:opt[0]])

     if best_prediction:
      predicted_products = ' '.join(map(str, 
                                    best_prediction))
     else:
      predicted_products = 'None'

     series['products'] = predicted_products
     series['true_products'] = true_products

     return true_products, predicted_products, opt[-1]

Results
-------

> Figure :ref:`productpca` illustrates PCA of 20 random products projected into 2 dimensions.

Reviewer: Did your model use PCA to generate clusers of products? If so, where does it fit in your model architecture? If not, what point are you making by including it in the paper?

Author: PCA was used to visualize the clustering of 20 selected products. It was used to show that some products are frequently bought together with the other products. Such a clustering was not used explicitly in our model, by an artificial network model is supposed to capture and use it implicitly in order to provide a better prediction. This information was added to the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/b6fea3a315f81facde7b2cff7829dd95c0d4f6ba

The results show clearly the presence of the cluster of products including the Pasta sauce and Pasta group articles.
This embedding plot was generated with 20 random products. Some trends can be observed here, but there are also some exceptions as it often happens with real data. 
In Table 2, Pasta Group was included into the product Categories.
In fact, this result can identify consumer buying behavior.

.. figure:: figures/product_pca.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 27%
   
   Embeddings of 20 random products projected in 2 dimensions. :label:`productpca`

:math:`F_1` in Figure :ref:`violon` (a) shows that the profiles of all promotions are similar. 
In the perspective of this work, it will be interesting to include weight base on statistic value. 
In Statistic Canada - 2017, only 5% of all promotions are more than 50% promoted, 95% of all promotions are less than 50%. 
Weightings are needed to make the model more robust. 
Figure :ref:`violon` (b) indicates that all shops follow the same profiles in the model. 

.. figure:: figures/violon.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 21%
   :figclass: wt
   

>    Distribution of :math:`F_1` measures against rebates (a) and stores (b). :label:`violon`

Reviewer: What am I supposed to be learning about your model from this plot?

Author: This plot represents the distribution of F1-score results with respect to the promotions and stores. We can see the distribution of the promotions and stores are very similar. Finally, this plot suggests the absence of the bias for these two model parameters. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/5316234bf9fb87c7119685920803fc6fcf4c77d0

        \hline
    Gogo Squeez Organic Apple Strawberry Applesauce &  0.042057 \\
            Organic AppleBerry Applesauce on the Go &  0.042057 \\
                           Carrot And Celery Sticks &  0.042057 \\
             Gluten Free Peanut Butter Berry  Chewy &  0.042057 \\
                   Organic Italian Balsamic Vinegar &  0.049325 \\ 
        \hline
                         Diet Cranberry Fruit Juice &  0.599472 \\
                                     Purified Water &  0.599472 \\
     Vanilla Chocolate Peanut Butter Ice Cream Bars &  0.599472 \\
  Total 0\% with Honey Nonfat Greek Strained Yogurt &  0.590824 \\
              Total 0\% Blueberry Acai Greek Yogurt &  0.590824 \\
        \hline
        \end{longtable}
        \caption{The average value of $F_1$ for all products considered.}
    \end{table}   

.. figure:: figures/products_F1.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 25%
   
   Distribution of :math:`F_1` measures relative to products around average. :label:`productsF1`

.. raw:: latex
    
    \begin{table}

        \begin{longtable}{|l|c|}
        \hline
           \textbf{Product} &  \textbf{Number of baskets} \\
        \hline

>                      Banana &   6138 \\

Reviewer: I find this table very surprising. I would have expected to see things like bread and potato chips in the top ten products. Do people really eat more lemons, limes, avocados, and bananas than bread?

Author: In fact, here we tested our model with 1000 products only (out of 49,684 products), which belonged to 5 of the 24 available categories, i.e. `Fruits-Vegetables`, `Pasta-Flour`, `Organic Food`, `Beverages`, and `Breakfast`, the rest of the categories were not considered in this test. This information was added to the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/70b52e893a1a4f54cb08d29ea3cf8aab3e987322

Reviewer: The  product_id description is pretty far away from this table caption in the paper. I might either:

A. link back to it explicitly from the caption (like you did in your comment here 😄); or,
B. or mention in the caption that the "top" products are from a subset comprising 2% of all available products

Author: Thanks for this comment. We have chosen the option B. We updated the caption as you have suggested. The caption is now as follows:
"The 10 most popular products included in the predicted baskets. The top products are from a subset comprising 2% of all available products."
See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/ece39bdc2227ed6e5f5749e7a7bd552e957c9dd6

In fact, 72.73% of the data were simulated (1000 out of 1374 baskets were simulated).
We described the sets of data simulated in the study, 
and we presented in detail the results of the simulation step.
For :math:`store\_id`, we started with an initial store and changed stores based on the proportion of common products between baskets.
If we assumed that the store coordinates are normally distributed :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,\sigma^2)` independently, 
the distance between this store and the consumer home located originally :math:`(0,0)` follows a Rayleigh distribution [KR05]_ with the :math:`\sigma` parameter.
Finally, we increased the value of the `special` random variable. Its value has been drawn from a Boltzmann distribution [AAR+18]_.
We observed that the baskets generated follow the same distribution that the original basket in terms of the basket size
(see Figure :ref:`orderfrequency`).

.. figure:: figures/order_frequency.png
   :align: center
   :scale: 5%
 
   Difference of basket size distribution between **Baskets generated** in blue and **Original baskets** in red.  :label:`orderfrequency`

Preprocessing dataset
=====================

> Initially, the data were stocked in csv files at a MySQL database taking 1.4 GB. Then, the data were stocked in a dataframe in our Python script.

Reviewer: 😂 is that a grocery store pun?

Author: 😂 Let's proposed this new formulation https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/1834db0376c12b929ed9e12e71cfc5b0f129e120

Author: @deniederhut Thanks for your recommendations. 
All items are fixed!

  \end{table}

.. figure:: figures/pearsonr.png
   :align: center
   :figclass: wt
   :scale: 3%

   Distribution of :math:`F_1` measures against consumers and products. :label:`pearsonr`

We evaluated the model (see Section 'Statistic scores') using the `sklearn` metrics (see below):

.. code-block:: python

   from sklearn.metrics import make_scorer, 
                               accuracy_score, 
                               f1_score, 
                               recall_score

  
The results in Table 5 illustrates that a better model accuracy was obtained when the original dataset of 374 real users was enriched by 1,000 artificial users. 
The accuracy of 49% was obtained for the augmented dataset, compared to the accuracy of 27% for the original dataset. 

.. raw:: latex
    
    \begin{table}

        \begin{longtable}{lccc}
        \hline
        \textbf{Statistics} & \textbf{Real} & \textbf{Real and augmented} \\
        \textbf{score} & \textbf{data} & \textbf{data} \\

        \hline
            Accuracy & 0.27 & 0.49\\
            Precision & 0.27 & 0.49\\
            Recall & 0.51 & 0.7\\
            F-measure & 0.22 & 0.37\\
        \hline
        \end{longtable}

>         \caption{Statistic score results for real data, and real with augmented data. Table clarify the impact of augmented data instead of only used real data.}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        \caption{Statistic score results for real data, and real with augmented data. The table clarifies the impact of using augmented data instead of only real data.}
```

Author: Thank you for your review and comments @stargaser 
This information was added to the revised manuscript. See https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings/pull/465/commits/e077a81c086e50b2fd75b3c52c20e693cfd3f71a
